---
title: "Implementing Web Analytics"
date: "2025-11-14"
description: "Why you should do web analytics"
tags: []
---

<div class="markdown">
	<h2 style="color: #ffcc00;">How I Did It</h2>
	<p>Last spring, when I was looking for a little extra work to do to make some money on the side, I came across a web analytics role for a startup in New Jersey. It sounded like an interesting product, and I had never done web analytics before, and I thought it might be good to get some experience with it while getting paid for it. That internship was a little tight on money and said I would be an unpaid intern, and considering I already had summer work planned, I decided not to work for free (I would have even accepted equity in the startup). Anyway, though I ended up not taking the job, I never forgot about my interest in web analytics.
	</p>
	<p>As a business minded individual, I thought web analytics would be particularly important if I ever started a business (I discovered I was right after starting my first business). When I created my personal website (where you are probably reading this), I remembered my interest in web analytics. I set up a quick Google Analytics page, changed some lines of code, and now I can see how much time you spend reading this! Now, I'm not selling you anything (yet, 11/14/2025), but if the AI race has taught us anything, is it that data is the name of the game. He who has data has leverage. He who has data has knowledge. Just from seeing how long a user stays on a particular page, I can guestimate what is right and wrong with my website. It can help me know what recruiters are and are not looking at. It can let me know if someone downloaded a study guide I made. This data will help me improve this simple website, potentially allowing it to scale to something else.</p>
	<h3>Let's Get Technical</h3>
	<p>I had a few choices when considering the web analytics framework I would use. First, I knew I was going to use something "free". I was not going to pay for someone else to tell me things a "free" platform could tell me with just a little more effort. I say "free" because though I didn't pay in cash, I know I am paying "Google" with all the data they track on me. So I went with Google Analytics. It has enough built in features to keep me occupied and costs me no cash. I also considered Umami. It is an open-source software that is self-hostable. While it would have been a lot more work to set up, I would have learned a lot more when it came to implementing my own features. That's right, in Umami, I would have had the chance to code all of my own analytics features. Two pros and a con: I would have been able to only implement the features I wanted and learned a lot of valuable coding practice, but it would have taken more time than I am prepared to put into this project.</p>
	<p>On the code side of things, Google Analytics gave me the code to paste into my project, so I had to do almost no thinking. One issue my setup runs into is routing. Because each page is routed via buttons and links, the page doesn't actually reload, so Google Analytics won't catch all the data I want to pick up. To work around this I had to implement a route tracking system (not to hard) on the relevant pages I wanted to track.</p>
 <hr>
	<p>One last thing to share. Implementing the web analytics was an amazing idea. I didn't think this little webpage about me (because who really wants to read about me) was going to get much traction. In the first few hours of setting up my analytics, I discover of 30 user who visited my site. If I was selling a product, this would be a really bad number. but for just having set up analytics, at the end of recruiting season too, I am amazed by the viewership I have amassed. I had no idea thirty people cared enough to check this out. What's better, based on their location they are people of half way across the U.S.. It surprised me because this means that a lot of recruiters are checking out this webpage. It was an exciting discovery and I recommend that if you have a portfolio website you should definitely consider adding in analytics.</p>

</div>
