---
title: "The Ethics of ..."
date: "2025-11-08"
description: "VT School Work"
tags: ["blog", "ethics of cheating", "school", "VT"]
---

<div class="markdown">
  <h2 style="color: #ffcc00;">I Thought Long and Hard About This</h2>

  <p>As I mentioned in my last "post" (man, I am really living up to the standard of a blog with the lingo) I want to implement SEO and metadata to drive traffic to this site. In due time products or businesses that I could capitalize off of may be promoted here, and getting people to click on my site (even if it is for HW help) is one step closer to getting a conversion (which means making $$$). And hey, if you are reading this and there is a link on the page to a product you might be interested in, check it out. Knowing myself, I only support products that bring real value to people's lives, because I am a minimalist, and I don't believe in wasting consumers money because I believe it is bad for the economy in the long run. Anyway, this is an intro to idea on providing value to VT students while improving my SEO.</p>

<p>My idea is to start posting some coursework here on the site. I once thought about doing a YT channel to offer online tutoring on VT course subjects that students struggle with (like physics which I was really good at). Overall, I think it was actually a really good idea. Even without social media, I think I could have advertised it pretty well on campus. What prevented me was time. I am usually pretty critical of people who say "I don't have enough time" because the average college student spend 3-4 hours a day on social media. However, when I say "I don't have time" (which is rare) it's usually because I have three tests this week and some extracurriculars. For example, this week I have three tests, a hackathon competition, and a two lab assignments. But I have my priorities straights, because I am writing this blog post for you. Anyways, I decided against the YT tutor because 1) I hate my face on camera, 2) I genuinely did not have enough time to dedicate to it. To make a YT channel successful it would have required ~10 hours per wee at my estimation, and that would have had pretty slow growth. I estimated that it would have traction by the time I graduated, and by then I'd be out of the loop. I wouldn't bet able to get as much inside info when I am off in another stat working a job. I decided I could spend my 10 hours per week learning many new skills, rather than focusing on one potentially profitable business idea. I think it was a good decision, and I can always try if I really wanted.</p>

<p>But I don't plan to turn this into a tutoring platform. Like I said, I don't have the time to record and edit super captivating educational videos (though I think I could do a fire job). But I do tutor on campus (hmu if you need help!). I take pretty clean notes and I think posting those could gain some traction. Of course, I wouldn't want them to be a substitute from anyone taking their own notes. The act of taking notes it super important. But I'll address this issue later. I think I could post the practice exams for my past classes. Anything else I post is getting into a moral grey area. If I post my HW answers, I am probably posting answers to questions that are still being asked. One counter argument is that Chat is already doing everyone's HW, so me posting my answers might be a net benefit because you get the VT version, not the Chat version. Same thing if I post my past exams. But I think I could handle the moral grey area if I made videos or tutorials. Again, this would take more time than I am prepared to give. Maybe I could get some AI to take the tedious work out of it for me.</p>

<p>I enjoy writing, as you can probably tell. In the old version of STATs, there was a document that all the students used. Some super awesome student made this guide to the class and everyone used it. But my year taking STAT (the year of this writing), we got a new STAT professor (he is great), but he changed the curriculum. Thus that document became irrelevant. I think making videos like that would be genuinely useful, and I think I could od it well while balancing my time. Another idea I have is to post lecture resources that professors post. What really annoys me is when the course canvas page gets posted the day classes start. How am I supposed to read the syllabus. How am I supposed to get ahead in the class. What if I don't know some of the pre-rec material that well, how am I supposed to prepare myself. While most students wouldn't, I truly believe (because I was one) that some subtends would prepare for their more difficult classes of winter and summer break if they had the right resources. In one sense, if you have a friend that already took the class, they can key you in to some of the course material, but image a webpage dedicated to everything you need to prepare for next semester. Image how confident you would feel going into the semester.</p>

<p>I have some other extravagant ideas. But two things matter here: execution and effectivity. First, no matter how good my idea is, it doesn't matter if I can't make it. Next, if I make all my great ideas, but don't get anyone to visit my site, I don't get much befit out of it. There is some balance there. If I create a bunch of review sheets and such for the classes I am currently in, I am going to get some good knowledge for myself, especially if I do it in a smart fashion. But if I am doing some calc review that doesn't directly benefit me, then I need to make sure if is paying off by getting visitors. There is a balance there too. I am going to have to do a little extra now to make something worth other people's time. But if I spend a bunch of time creating, with my creation never being used by others, I have then wasted my time. I need to find the right balance point.</p>

<h2>The Ethics</h2>

<p>The point of this post is to address the ethics, for a few reasons. First, if I do something that is against school rules, and then I get caught (even if unintentional) I have this to show that I at least tried. Truthfully, if I get caught after I graduate, it probably doesn't matter. It especially doesn't matter if I make a successful business (but I'll keep dreaming). Also, I think it being honest is key, and if I am going to break a rule, why not be vocal about it. For example, rules against using Chat are stupid. They might have the right idea in mind, but telling us not to use Chat is like telling us not to learn to read. It's an important skill to have. Now of course, there is a balance and we shouldn't be using Chat for everything. We need to be able to do some coding without Chat, especially if we are a CS student, but we shouldn't be doing coding without any AI either. This begs the question, how are we supposed to follow rules that are detrimental to our education?</p>

<p>I want to start by advocating for following rules. Truthfully, when a rule is in place, it is probably better to default to following the rule than breaking it. Tradition has its place. With that said, there are clearly bad rules out there. We can't be expected to follow a rule if it is actually hurting our eduction. Calculators are a good example. For a while, calculators weren't permited in schools. But now they are an expectation in many math classes. Of course we still learn some math without calculators, but that doesn't mean we never use it. The problem is out classes just straight out ban AI. It makes it very difficult to learn the most imporant skill of the century when it is banned in your classes. The irony is teachers use AI to write assignments that we aren't allowed to use AI on. If AI is so important you can use it to make an assignment, maybe it's important enough for us to use it. But if we are going to break rules, how to be break rules ethicly (an oxymoron).</p>

<p>Imagine a class with three students. They are all given the same assignment. The first student uses the AI to do the assignment for him. His only thought is about wording the prompt, he doesn't even read the coutput before he copy-pastes the answer and turns in the assignment. The second student is s strict rule follower, he refuses to use AI. He labors all night to get the assignment done by hand, without AI, Then there is a third student. He uses AI, but he tries to do the work he can on his own first. He uses AI to answer the repetative tasks he is confident in. He makes sure he struggles a little bit to maximize leanring, and then he uses AI. He reads the output, and makes sure he understands the output. Instead of copy-pasting the answer, he writes it by hand.</p>

<p>Everyone of us is somewhere on that scale. We might not be as perfect as that third student, but hopfully we still do a little independent thinking. It's all about finding the right balance. AI can save us time, but is it a short term or long term benefit? That first student will be in pain when it comes time to study for a test. He may even stuggle in his job when advanced questions can't be answered by AI. The second student will fall behind, he is the student who will be replace by AI and won't have a job. The third student will be ready to use AI, but also capable of using his brain when AI can't solve the problem. He may even be the student that creates the AI that will replace your job. The point of this is to show that following this abstract "no AI" rule is not going to serve anyone in the long run (expect the University that is scamming us out of our money).</p>

<p>So how does this play into the ethics of learning in a broader sense. Well, clearly AI is a tool that should be used. 90% of students break AI rules in school. Wo what other rules can we "ethicaly" break?</p>

</div>